setup/battery.md, before:

# Battery

The DeltaQuad series UAV is compatible with the DeltaQuad High Grade LiPo Battery. Using other batteries is not recommended and will impact your warranty.&#x20;

## Safety notice

1. Use specific Lithium Polymer charger only. Do not use a NiCd or NiMh charger - Failure to do so may cause a fire, which may result in personal injury and property damage.
2. Never charge batteries unattended unless you charge inside a LiPo Safe. When charging Li-Po batteries you should always remain in constant observation to monitor the charging process and react to potential problems that may occur.
3. If at any time you witness a battery starting to balloon or swell up, discontinue charging process immediately. Disconnect the battery and dispose of it safely. Continuing to charge a battery that has begun to swell will result in fire. Likewise, never use a battery if you find it swollen or ballooned.
4. Since delayed chemical reaction can occur, it is best to observe the battery as a safety precaution. Battery observation should occur in a safe area outside of any building or vehicle and away from any combustible material.
5. Wire lead shorts can cause fire! If you accidentally short the wires, the battery must be placed in a safe area for observation for approximately 1 hour. Additionally, if a short occurs and contact is made with metal (such as rings on your hand), severe injuries may occur due to the conductibility of electric current.
6. A battery can still ignite even after 1 hour.
7. A battery that makes a hissing sound is almost certain to ignite. Consider your own safety and that of your environment before attempting any action
8. In the event of a crash, after a 15 minute period to ensure the LiPo was not compromised, you must remove battery and dispose of it safely.

## Placing the LiPo

Place the LiPo inside the fuselage with the Velcro strips pointing down. Make sure to position the LiPo as far forward as possible.\


![](<../assets/insert battery.png>)

**Note:** Only place a LiPo before the flight, and remove the LiPo directly after the flight. Always transport the LiPo in a safe transportation unit such as a fireproof bag or storage container.

If any modifications were made to the vehicle or a different LiPo is used other than the DeltaQuad High-Grade LiPo battery be sure to verify the Center of Gravity (CG). The maximum rear CG is indicated by small notches in the composite wing joiners as indicated in the image below. These notches indicate the furthest back the CG is allowed to be. The CG is allowed to be 15mm more towards the nose, but may not be more towards the tail.

You can verify the CG by balancing the vehicle on your fingertips. The vehicle should sit at approximately 5 degrees nose up while verifying the CG.

**Note:** When verifying the Center of Gravity make sure all components that are used in flight are inserted and attached.

![](<../assets/cg marker.png>)

## Charging the LiPo

If you have ordered the DeltaQuad with a LiPo battery it will come with a plug & play charger. This charger can charge an empty LiPo battery in approximately 6 hours. To charge the battery insert both the power and balance plugs in the charger, it will commence charging automatically. When the LED light on the charger turns green the LiPo will have been charged.

The DeltaQuad LiPo can also be charged using a high current charging solution and is capable of charging within 1 hour if your charger is capable of providing 20 Amperes. Charging at this rate will limit the durability of the LiPo, it is recommended to charge the LiPo at no more than 5 Amperes for a maximum lifetime.

1. Remove the battery from the vehicle. The battery should never be charged inside the vehicle.
2. Never charge batteries unattended unless you can charge them inside a LiPo safe.
3. Charge in an isolated area, away from other flammable materials.
4. Ensure the battery is at ambient temperature before charging.

## Storing the LiPo

The LiPo should be stored in a safe and dark location between 5 and 30 degrees Celsius. If the battery has been fully discharged, it is recommended to put at least some charge (+- 50%) before long term storage.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-227: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

setup/battery.md, after:

# Battery

The DeltaQuad series UAV is compatible with the DeltaQuad High Grade LiPo Battery. Using other batteries is not recommended and will impact your warranty.&#x20;

## Safety notice

1. Use specific Lithium Polymer charger only. Do not use a NiCd or NiMh charger - Failure to do so may cause a fire, which may result in personal injury and property damage.
2. Never charge batteries unattended unless you charge inside a LiPo Safe. When charging Li-Po batteries you should always remain in constant observation to monitor the charging process and react to potential problems that may occur.
3. If at any time you witness a battery starting to balloon or swell up, discontinue charging process immediately. Disconnect the battery and dispose of it safely. Continuing to charge a battery that has begun to swell will result in fire. Likewise, never use a battery if you find it swollen or ballooned.
4. Since delayed chemical reaction can occur, it is best to observe the battery as a safety precaution. Battery observation should occur in a safe area outside of any building or vehicle and away from any combustible material.
5. Wire lead shorts can cause fire! If you accidentally short the wires, the battery must be placed in a safe area for observation for approximately 1 hour. Additionally, if a short occurs and contact is made with metal (such as rings on your hand), severe injuries may occur due to the conductibility of electric current.
6. A battery can still ignite even after 1 hour.
7. A battery that makes a hissing sound is almost certain to ignite. Consider your own safety and that of your environment before attempting any action
8. In the event of a crash, after a 15 minute period to ensure the LiPo was not compromised, you must remove battery and dispose of it safely.

## Placing the LiPo

The DeltaQuad Pro must always be flown with a fully charged battery. If the battery is not fully charged the vehicle is unable to correctly estimate the remaining battery capacity and the indicated percentages may deviate.

Place the LiPo inside the fuselage with the Velcro strips pointing down. Make sure to position the LiPo as far forward as possible.\


![](<../assets/insert battery.png>)

**Note:** Only place a LiPo before the flight, and remove the LiPo directly after the flight. Always transport the LiPo in a safe transportation unit such as a fireproof bag or storage container.

If any modifications were made to the vehicle or a different LiPo is used other than the DeltaQuad High-Grade LiPo battery be sure to verify the Center of Gravity (CG). The maximum rear CG is indicated by small notches in the composite wing joiners as indicated in the image below. These notches indicate the furthest back the CG is allowed to be. The CG is allowed to be 15mm more towards the nose, but may not be more towards the tail.

You can verify the CG by balancing the vehicle on your fingertips. The vehicle should sit at approximately 5 degrees nose up while verifying the CG.

**Note:** When verifying the Center of Gravity make sure all components that are used in flight are inserted and attached.

![](<../assets/cg marker.png>)

## Charging the LiPo

If you have ordered the DeltaQuad with a LiPo battery it will come with a plug & play charger. This charger can charge an empty LiPo battery in approximately 6 hours. To charge the battery insert both the power and balance plugs in the charger, it will commence charging automatically. When the LED light on the charger turns green the LiPo will have been charged.

The DeltaQuad LiPo can also be charged using a high current charging solution and is capable of charging within 1 hour if your charger is capable of providing 20 Amperes. Charging at this rate will limit the durability of the LiPo, it is recommended to charge the LiPo at no more than 5 Amperes for a maximum lifetime.

1. Remove the battery from the vehicle. The battery should never be charged inside the vehicle.
2. Never charge batteries unattended unless you can charge them inside a LiPo safe.
3. Charge in an isolated area, away from other flammable materials.
4. Ensure the battery is at ambient temperature before charging.

## Storing the LiPo

The LiPo should be stored in a safe and dark location between 5 and 30 degrees Celsius. If the battery has been fully discharged, it is recommended to put at least some charge (+- 50%) before long term storage.
